# Remote Controlled 360ยบ Video

**State:** `planned`

On the original idea for the platform, the user could control the direction of the camera in the 360ยบ video using a joystick on their phone or another device.

This idea was slightly explored in the development using a fork of the Chat Service with its socket.io server.

# Concept 1 - Browser-based Remote

The current idea is based on using a socket.io server to communicate between the current opened 360ยบ stream of a user and another device with a specific "remote-like" page.

When the user opens a live stream there can be a button they can click to generate a link to a webpage where they can remotely control the viewport of the stream. This link they can then send to their device or access a specific remote page in their dashboard to control the current opened stream.

These connections can be managed by a new service named something like "remote service" (original) of Open360 based on a socket.io server. This server makes simple rooms and keeps track of what stream the user want to control. When the user clicks the "generate remote control link" on a channel's stream, the remote service creates a socket room. The browser where the user is watching the stream then connects to this room and listens for an event called something like "move viewport". The link generated by the web service will then include a token with the ID of the room so that when the user accesses the remote webpage using that link they connect to the remote room on their device. This page will have some sort of joystick they can move or a globe they can spin to control the viewport of the stream.

_(this page needs diagrams of the concept)_
